tools/automator/README.md, before:

# Automator

## Description

`automator.sh` is a bash script used to automate cross-repository workloads. It clones an user-defined list of GitHub repositories, runs a series of
user-defined commands in each of those repositories, then forks, commits, and pull requests any changes back to the upstream repository. It can be executed
either as a standalone script or in Prow CI as a presubmit, postsubmit, or peridoic job.

## Prerequisites

1. [Bash 4.0+] interpreter.

1. The following third-party tools must be available in the execution environment:
   - [`curl`]
   - [`getopt`]
   - [`git`]
   - [`jq`]
   - [`pr-creator`]
   - [`realpath`]

1. For MacOS, additionally install the `coreutils` and `gnu-getopt` Homebrew packages, then follow the postinstall instructions to add the commands to your `PATH`:

    ```bash
    brew install gnu-getopt coreutils
    ```

1. Unless executed in dry-run mode (i.e. `--dry-run`), it requires the use of a [GitHub access token] to identify the user and interact
   with the GitHub API.

## Usage

```bash
automator.sh [options]...
```

### Options

The following is a list of supported options for `automator.sh`. If an option is **optional**, then its _default_ value will be used. If an option is
**required** and unspecified, then execution will fail with a non-zero exit code.

| Option          | Argument   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Example(s)                                                                                      |
| --------------- | ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--branch`      | string     | The branch of the repository to clone and base the pull request. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the currently checked out branch if inside a git directory.                                                                              | `master`                                                                                        |
| `--org`         | string     | The organization of the repository to clone and base the pull request. This option is **required**.                                                                                                                                                         | `istio`                                                                                         |
| `--repo`        | string,... | The repository(ies) to clone and base the pull request. More than one repository can be specified via a comma-separated string. This option is **required**.                                                                                                | `common-files`(single repo)<br>`istio,istio.io,api,test-infra`(multiple repos)                  |
| `--title`       | template   | This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the following template: `Automator: update $AUTOMATOR_ORG/$AUTOMATOR_REPO@$AUTOMATOR_BRANCH-$AUTOMATOR_MODIFIER`.                                                                                         | `Update istio/api`                                                                              |
| `--match-title` | template   | Reuse an existing pull request matching this title. Rather than create a new pull request, the existing pull request will be updated with any new changes. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the value of the `--title` template.           | `Update istio/api`                                                                              |
| `--body`        | template   | The body of the pull request. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the following template: `Generated by Automator - $(date -uIseconds)`.                                                                                                      | `Generated by Automator - $(date -uIseconds)`                                                   |
| `--labels`      | string,... | The label(s) to add to the pull request. More than one label can be specified via a comma-separated string. This option is **optional**.                                                                                                                    | `auto-merge`(single label)<br>`auto-merge,new,env/aws`(multiple labels)                         |
| `--user`        | string     | The user name associated with the commit, fork, and pull request. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the login of the github token.                                                                                                          | `clarketm`                                                                                      |
| `--email`       | string     | The email address associated with the commit, fork, and pull request. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the email of the github token.                                                                                                      | `clarketm@google.com`                                                                           |
| `--modifier`    | string     | A segment of text to append to the branch name of the fork for additional context. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to `automator.sh`.                                                                                                        | `update-api-dependency`                                                                         |
| `--token-path`  | file       | Path to a file containing a [GitHub access token]. The token is used to identify the user and interact with the GitHub API. This option is **required** if `--token` is not specified.                                                                      | `/path/to/github/token`                                                                         |
| `--token`       | string     | A [GitHub access token]. The token is used to identify the user and interact with the GitHub API. This option is **required** if `--token-path` is not specified.                                                                                           | `aSuperSecretGithubToken`                                                                       |
| `--script-path` | script     | Path to a bash script containing the command(s) to execute in each cloned repository. This option is **required** if `--cmd` is not specified.                                                                                                              | `/path/to/bash/script`                                                                          |
| `--cmd`         | command    | A command to execute in each cloned repository. This option is **required** if `--script-path` is not specified.                                                                                                                                            | `go get istio.io/istio`(single command)<br>`go get istio.io/api && make gen`(multiple commands) |
| `--verbose`     |            | Enable verbose output. Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. **WARNING**: this has the potential to print sensitive data to standard output.                                                                                             |                                                                                                 |
| `--strict`      |            | Enable strict mode. When enabled, if the command does not produce a [git diff] it will exit with a non-zero exit code.                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                 |
| `--dry-run`     |            | Enable dry run mode. When enabled, the command will terminate early and **NOT** perform a commit, push, or pull request for any changes. This is useful for local testing/debugging or when concerned only with the [git diff] or exit code of the command. |                                                                                                 |
| `--git-exclude` | string | Added to `git diff` to exclude a file/path when detrining changes | `common` |

### Environment Variables

The following is a list of environment variables supported by `automator.sh`. These variables can be specified in any of the **template** [options](#options)
above (e.g. `--title`) or in the **command** (e.g. `--cmd`) or **script** (e.g. `--script-path`) executed by `automator.sh`.

| Variable               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                       | Example(s)                                 |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `AUTOMATOR_ORG`        | Contains the value of the GitHub organization. It is set via the `--org` option.                                                                                                                  | `istio`                                    |
| `AUTOMATOR_REPO`       | Contains the _current_ value of the repository. It is set via the `--repo` option. If more that one repository is specified, this variable will contain the repository currently being processed. | `istio.io`                                 |
| `AUTOMATOR_BRANCH`     | Contains the value of the branch. It is set via the `--branch` option.                                                                                                                            | `master`                                   |
| `AUTOMATOR_MODIFIER`   | Contains the value of the modifier. It is set via the `--modifier` option.                                                                                                                        | `update-deps`                              |
| `AUTOMATOR_ROOT_DIR`   | The absolute path of the current working directory.                                                                                                                                               | `/path/of/current/working/dir`             |
| `AUTOMATOR_REPO_DIR`   | The absolute path of the directory of the cloned repository. If more that one repository is specified, this variable will contain the path to the repository currently being processed.           | `/path/of/cloned/repo/dir`                 |
| `AUTOMATOR_SRC_ORG`    | Set to the value of Prow's [`REPO_OWNER`][prow jobs].                                                                                                                                             | `istio`                                    |
| `AUTOMATOR_SRC_REPO`   | Set to the value of Prow's [`REPO_NAME`][prow jobs].                                                                                                                                              | `test-infra`                               |
| `AUTOMATOR_SRC_BRANCH` | Set to the value of Prow's [`PULL_BASE_REF`][prow jobs].                                                                                                                                          | `master`                                   |
| `AUTOMATOR_SHA`        | Set to the git commit sha (if inside a git directory).                                                                                                                                            | `c6418d1439d12eab2f1a4eae89f6eee46a34c31b` |
| `AUTOMATOR_SHA_SHORT`  | Set to the git commit sha trimmed to 8 character (if inside a git directory).                                                                                                                     | `c6418d14`                                 |
| `AUTOMATOR_SHA_COMMIT_DATE` | Set to the git sha committed date.                                                                                                                                                           | `2020-09-24`

### Examples

- [Prow presubmit job][presubmit example]
- [Prow postsubmit job][postsubmit example]
- [Prow periodic job][periodic example]

## Testing / Debugging

To test or debug `automator.sh` locally, first ensure the execution environment meets the above [prerequisites](#prerequisites). Additionally, supply
the `--dry-run` option. This will prevent all GitHub state modifications (i.e. fork, commit, and pull request). Instead, it will print a `git diff` to
standard out if any files were changed, then exit.

```bash
/path/to/automator.sh \
--org=istio \
--repo=test-infra \
--branch=master \
--title='my automator test' \
--cmd="echo 'do something fun' > file.txt" \
--dry-run
```

```diff
--- /dev/null
+++ b/file.txt
@@ -0,0 +1 @@
+do something fun

```

[presubmit example]: https://github.com/istio/test-infra/blob/de701f31e850f48fc035a5ec383c2595661dcc7b/prow/cluster/jobs/istio/istio.io/istio.istio.io.master.gen.yaml#L253-L296
[postsubmit example]: https://github.com/istio/test-infra/blob/f70e0ea292c56acb62c2ff6c7f618af119d4c67c/prow/cluster/jobs/istio/common-files/istio.common-files.master.gen.yaml#L31-L77
[periodic example]: https://github.com/istio/test-infra/blob/de701f31e850f48fc035a5ec383c2595661dcc7b/prow/cluster/jobs/istio/istio.io/istio.istio.io.master.gen.yaml#L3-L46
[prow jobs]: https://github.com/istio/test-infra/blob/de701f31e850f48fc035a5ec383c2595661dcc7b/prow/cluster/jobs/istio/istio.io/istio.istio.io.master.gen.yaml#L3-L46
[github access token]: https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token
[bash 4.0+]: https://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/bashver4.html
[git diff]: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff
[`curl`]: https://curl.haxx.se/
[`getopt`]: https://linux.die.net/man/1/getopt
[`git`]: https://git-scm.com/
[`jq`]: https://github.com/stedolan/jq
[`pr-creator`]: https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/tree/master/robots/pr-creator
[`realpath`]: https://linux.die.net/man/1/realpath

Commit message:

Update automator exclude check to exclude files in PR causing event

tools/automator/README.md, after:

# Automator

## Description

`automator.sh` is a bash script used to automate cross-repository workloads. It clones an user-defined list of GitHub repositories, runs a series of
user-defined commands in each of those repositories, then forks, commits, and pull requests any changes back to the upstream repository. It can be executed
either as a standalone script or in Prow CI as a presubmit, postsubmit, or peridoic job.

## Prerequisites

1. [Bash 4.0+] interpreter.

1. The following third-party tools must be available in the execution environment:
   - [`curl`]
   - [`getopt`]
   - [`git`]
   - [`jq`]
   - [`pr-creator`]
   - [`realpath`]

1. For MacOS, additionally install the `coreutils` and `gnu-getopt` Homebrew packages, then follow the postinstall instructions to add the commands to your `PATH`:

    ```bash
    brew install gnu-getopt coreutils
    ```

1. Unless executed in dry-run mode (i.e. `--dry-run`), it requires the use of a [GitHub access token] to identify the user and interact
   with the GitHub API.

## Usage

```bash
automator.sh [options]...
```

### Options

The following is a list of supported options for `automator.sh`. If an option is **optional**, then its _default_ value will be used. If an option is
**required** and unspecified, then execution will fail with a non-zero exit code.

| Option          | Argument   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Example(s)                                                                                      |
| --------------- | ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--branch`      | string     | The branch of the repository to clone and base the pull request. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the currently checked out branch if inside a git directory.                                                                              | `master`                                                                                        |
| `--org`         | string     | The organization of the repository to clone and base the pull request. This option is **required**.                                                                                                                                                         | `istio`                                                                                         |
| `--repo`        | string,... | The repository(ies) to clone and base the pull request. More than one repository can be specified via a comma-separated string. This option is **required**.                                                                                                | `common-files`(single repo)<br>`istio,istio.io,api,test-infra`(multiple repos)                  |
| `--title`       | template   | This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the following template: `Automator: update $AUTOMATOR_ORG/$AUTOMATOR_REPO@$AUTOMATOR_BRANCH-$AUTOMATOR_MODIFIER`.                                                                                         | `Update istio/api`                                                                              |
| `--match-title` | template   | Reuse an existing pull request matching this title. Rather than create a new pull request, the existing pull request will be updated with any new changes. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the value of the `--title` template.           | `Update istio/api`                                                                              |
| `--body`        | template   | The body of the pull request. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the following template: `Generated by Automator - $(date -uIseconds)`.                                                                                                      | `Generated by Automator - $(date -uIseconds)`                                                   |
| `--labels`      | string,... | The label(s) to add to the pull request. More than one label can be specified via a comma-separated string. This option is **optional**.                                                                                                                    | `auto-merge`(single label)<br>`auto-merge,new,env/aws`(multiple labels)                         |
| `--user`        | string     | The user name associated with the commit, fork, and pull request. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the login of the github token.                                                                                                          | `clarketm`                                                                                      |
| `--email`       | string     | The email address associated with the commit, fork, and pull request. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to the email of the github token.                                                                                                      | `clarketm@google.com`                                                                           |
| `--modifier`    | string     | A segment of text to append to the branch name of the fork for additional context. This option is **optional** and will _default_ to `automator.sh`.                                                                                                        | `update-api-dependency`                                                                         |
| `--token-path`  | file       | Path to a file containing a [GitHub access token]. The token is used to identify the user and interact with the GitHub API. This option is **required** if `--token` is not specified.                                                                      | `/path/to/github/token`                                                                         |
| `--token`       | string     | A [GitHub access token]. The token is used to identify the user and interact with the GitHub API. This option is **required** if `--token-path` is not specified.                                                                                           | `aSuperSecretGithubToken`                                                                       |
| `--script-path` | script     | Path to a bash script containing the command(s) to execute in each cloned repository. This option is **required** if `--cmd` is not specified.                                                                                                              | `/path/to/bash/script`                                                                          |
| `--cmd`         | command    | A command to execute in each cloned repository. This option is **required** if `--script-path` is not specified.                                                                                                                                            | `go get istio.io/istio`(single command)<br>`go get istio.io/api && make gen`(multiple commands) |
| `--verbose`     |            | Enable verbose output. Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. **WARNING**: this has the potential to print sensitive data to standard output.                                                                                             |                                                                                                 |
| `--strict`      |            | Enable strict mode. When enabled, if the command does not produce a [git diff] it will exit with a non-zero exit code.                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                 |
| `--dry-run`     |            | Enable dry run mode. When enabled, the command will terminate early and **NOT** perform a commit, push, or pull request for any changes. This is useful for local testing/debugging or when concerned only with the [git diff] or exit code of the command. |                                                                                                 |
| `--git-exclude` | string | Applied to list of file changes in the PR CAUSING this automator run using grep -vE '\<string\>'. If no additional changes remain, the automator task will stop. | `^common/`<br> `^pkg/\|^pilot/`|

### Environment Variables

The following is a list of environment variables supported by `automator.sh`. These variables can be specified in any of the **template** [options](#options)
above (e.g. `--title`) or in the **command** (e.g. `--cmd`) or **script** (e.g. `--script-path`) executed by `automator.sh`.

| Variable               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                       | Example(s)                                 |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `AUTOMATOR_ORG`        | Contains the value of the GitHub organization. It is set via the `--org` option.                                                                                                                  | `istio`                                    |
| `AUTOMATOR_REPO`       | Contains the _current_ value of the repository. It is set via the `--repo` option. If more that one repository is specified, this variable will contain the repository currently being processed. | `istio.io`                                 |
| `AUTOMATOR_BRANCH`     | Contains the value of the branch. It is set via the `--branch` option.                                                                                                                            | `master`                                   |
| `AUTOMATOR_MODIFIER`   | Contains the value of the modifier. It is set via the `--modifier` option.                                                                                                                        | `update-deps`                              |
| `AUTOMATOR_ROOT_DIR`   | The absolute path of the current working directory.                                                                                                                                               | `/path/of/current/working/dir`             |
| `AUTOMATOR_REPO_DIR`   | The absolute path of the directory of the cloned repository. If more that one repository is specified, this variable will contain the path to the repository currently being processed.           | `/path/of/cloned/repo/dir`                 |
| `AUTOMATOR_SRC_ORG`    | Set to the value of Prow's [`REPO_OWNER`][prow jobs].                                                                                                                                             | `istio`                                    |
| `AUTOMATOR_SRC_REPO`   | Set to the value of Prow's [`REPO_NAME`][prow jobs].                                                                                                                                              | `test-infra`                               |
| `AUTOMATOR_SRC_BRANCH` | Set to the value of Prow's [`PULL_BASE_REF`][prow jobs].                                                                                                                                          | `master`                                   |
| `AUTOMATOR_SHA`        | Set to the git commit sha (if inside a git directory).                                                                                                                                            | `c6418d1439d12eab2f1a4eae89f6eee46a34c31b` |
| `AUTOMATOR_SHA_SHORT`  | Set to the git commit sha trimmed to 8 character (if inside a git directory).                                                                                                                     | `c6418d14`                                 |
| `AUTOMATOR_SHA_COMMIT_DATE` | Set to the git sha committed date.                                                                                                                                                           | `2020-09-24`

### Examples

- [Prow presubmit job][presubmit example]
- [Prow postsubmit job][postsubmit example]
- [Prow periodic job][periodic example]

## Testing / Debugging

To test or debug `automator.sh` locally, first ensure the execution environment meets the above [prerequisites](#prerequisites). Additionally, supply
the `--dry-run` option. This will prevent all GitHub state modifications (i.e. fork, commit, and pull request). Instead, it will print a `git diff` to
standard out if any files were changed, then exit.

```bash
/path/to/automator.sh \
--org=istio \
--repo=test-infra \
--branch=master \
--title='my automator test' \
--cmd="echo 'do something fun' > file.txt" \
--dry-run
```

```diff
--- /dev/null
+++ b/file.txt
@@ -0,0 +1 @@
+do something fun

```

[presubmit example]: https://github.com/istio/test-infra/blob/de701f31e850f48fc035a5ec383c2595661dcc7b/prow/cluster/jobs/istio/istio.io/istio.istio.io.master.gen.yaml#L253-L296
[postsubmit example]: https://github.com/istio/test-infra/blob/f70e0ea292c56acb62c2ff6c7f618af119d4c67c/prow/cluster/jobs/istio/common-files/istio.common-files.master.gen.yaml#L31-L77
[periodic example]: https://github.com/istio/test-infra/blob/de701f31e850f48fc035a5ec383c2595661dcc7b/prow/cluster/jobs/istio/istio.io/istio.istio.io.master.gen.yaml#L3-L46
[prow jobs]: https://github.com/istio/test-infra/blob/de701f31e850f48fc035a5ec383c2595661dcc7b/prow/cluster/jobs/istio/istio.io/istio.istio.io.master.gen.yaml#L3-L46
[github access token]: https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token
[bash 4.0+]: https://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/bashver4.html
[git diff]: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff
[`curl`]: https://curl.haxx.se/
[`getopt`]: https://linux.die.net/man/1/getopt
[`git`]: https://git-scm.com/
[`jq`]: https://github.com/stedolan/jq
[`pr-creator`]: https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/tree/master/robots/pr-creator
[`realpath`]: https://linux.die.net/man/1/realpath
