tools/prowgen/README.md, before:

# Istio Prow Job Config Generator

`prowgen` is a tool that can be used to generate a set of Prow job configuration
files from the templated meta config files. It can help simplify the complex
Prow job configuration files by allowing users to provide opinionated defaults
and shared config fields.

## Config Reference

`prowgen` simplifies the configuration by allowing users to define multiple layers
of configs, with each overlays on the other. Currently it supports defining 3
layers:

- `BaseConfig` contains common fields that are shared by all meta config files
  under the same folder.
- `JobsConfig` contains fields that can be defined in a meta config file, and it
  can contain multiple `Job`s.
- `Job` is the last layer for defining the actual Prow jobs.

All the supported fields for these structs can be checked from
[spec.go](./pkg/spec/spec.go), but below are the concrete examples on how to
configure them in `yaml` format.

### Base config

In the root folder, a `.base.yaml` file can be added to define the config fields
that are shared by all the meta config files.

Below is an example base config file:

```yaml
# The header line that will be added to each generated config file.
autogen_header: "# THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED. See prow/config/README.md\n"

# A map of org:alias.
# Jobs configured with the org in this map will have its `path_alias` field.
path_aliases:
  istio: istio.io

# Cluster and node pool to schedule the Prow job pods.
cluster: istio-build
node_selector:
  testing: test-pool

# The GCS bucket to upload the logs and artifacts.
gcs_log_bucket: istio-testing

# Testgrid config for all the jobs.
# Note num_failures_to_alert will only be set for postsubmit and periodic jobs.
testgrid_config:
  enabled: true
  alert_email: istio-oncall@googlegroups.com
  num_failures_to_alert: "1"

# A map of preset resource allocations that can be referenced in each meta config file.
resources_presets:
  default:
    limits:
      cpu: 3000m
      memory: 24Gi
    requests:
      cpu: 1000m
      memory: 3Gi

# The default dependencies for all the jobs.
requirements: [cache]
# A map of dependency presets that can be referenced in each meta config file.
requirement_presets:
  kind:
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /lib/modules
      name: modules
      readOnly: true
    - mountPath: /sys/fs/cgroup
      name: cgroup
      readOnly: true
    - mountPath: /var/lib/docker
      name: docker-root
    volumes:
    - hostPath:
        path: /lib/modules
        type: Directory
      name: modules
    - hostPath:
        path: /sys/fs/cgroup
        type: Directory
      name: cgroup
    - emptyDir: {}
      name: docker-root
  cache:
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /home/prow/go/pkg
      name: build-cache
      subPath: gomod
    volumes:
    - hostPath:
        path: /var/tmp/prow/cache
        type: DirectoryOrCreate
      name: build-cache
  gcp:
    labels:
      preset-service-account: "true"
  commonargs:
    args:
    - "--up"
    - "--down"
    - "--test"
```

In each sub-folder, a `.base.yaml` file can also be added which'll overlay the
config fields in the root `.base.yaml`. Please note for now the overlay logic is
not recursive, which means only the `.base.yaml` file in the current folder and
the root folder will be overlaid, any other `.base.yaml` files in folders
between them will be ignored.

## Job Syntax

Any number of yaml files can be added to the root and subfolder(s) to configure
the Prow jobs for each org/repo:branches.

Before is an example, annotated job config file:

```yaml
# REQUIRED. Defines what org these jobs should run for
org: istio
# REQUIRED. Defines what repo these jobs should run for
repo: istio

# Defines what branches to run these jobs for. Multiple can be provided
# The branch name will be appended to the job name (e.g tests -> tests-master)
# If this is not supplied, it defaults to master
branches:
  - master

# REQUIRED. Defines the image that will be used to run the jobs
image: gcr.io/istio-testing/build-tools:master

# The policy and secrets for pulling the image.
image_pull_policy: Always
image_pull_secrets: ["gcr-secret"]

# The interval to schedule the periodic Prow jobs.
interval: 5h
# cron can also be used to schedule the periodic Prow jobs.
# interval and cron cannot be specified together.

# Determines whether this configuration can be automatically cloned to create a release branch
# version. Only used for Istio to generate meta config files for the new release branch.
supports_release_branching: false

# A matrix can contain arbitrary number of dimensions, and can be used to easily define a combination of Prow jobs.
# Each dimension will only be respected for computation if they are referenced in the Prow job config, and the syntax
# to use the dimension is $(matrix.dimension_name)
matrix:
  greet: [hey, hello, hi]
  name: [foo, bar]

# Defines the actual jobs
jobs:
  # A basic test requires just a name and a command to run
  - name: unit-tests
    command: [make, test]
  - name: integration-tests
    # types defines when the job will run. Valid options are [presubmit, postsubmit, periodic].
    # by default a presubmit and postsubmit job will be created with the same config
    types: [postsubmit, periodic]
    # resources determines what resource requests and limits to use.
    # It can be one of the preset resource allocations defined in the global config and file config.
    # If omitted, default will be used if it is provided.
    resources: large
    # timeout is how long the prow job will be kept before being aborted.
    timeout: 10h
    command: [prow/istio-lint.sh]
    # requirements specify what dependencies a test has.
    # The options must be the preset requirement names specified in the requirement_presets field in the global config and file config.
    requirements: [gcp, commonargs]
    # excluded_requirements specify what dependencies a test should not have.
    # The options must be the preset requirement names specified in the requirement_presets field in the global config and file config.
    excluded_requirements: [cache]
  - name: hello-world
    command: [echo, "hello world"]
    # modifiers change various parts of the test config. See the values below
    modifiers:
    - presubmit_skipped # if set, the test will only be run in presubmit by explicitly calling /test on it
    - presubmit_optional # if set, the test will not be required in presubmit
    - hidden # if set, the test will run but not be reported to the GitHub UI
  - name: $(matrix.greet)-$(matrix.name)
    # Prow jobs will be generated based on the combinations of each dimension.
    # In this case 3*2=6 Prow jobs will be generated.
    command: [echo, "${matrix.greet} $(matrix.name)"]

# Defines preset resource allocations for tests
# The map here will be intersected with the map in the global config (if there is),
# and overwrite the value if the names are duplicated.
resources_presets:
  default:
    requests:
      memory: "3Gi"
      cpu: "3000m"
    limits:
      memory: "24Gi"
      cpu: "3000m"
  # Define another preset, "large", with higher allocations
  large:
    requests:
      memory: "16Gi"
      cpu: "3000m"
    limits:
      memory: "24Gi"
      cpu: "3000m"
# Defines preset dependencies for tests
# The map here will be intersected with the map in the base config (if there is),
# and overwrite the value if the names are duplicated.
requirement_presets:
  github:
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /etc/github-token
      name: github
      readOnly: true
    volumes:
    - name: github
      secret:
        secretName: oauth-token
```

More of the examples can be checked from [testdata](./pkg/testdata/) and [Istio
Prow jobs](../../prow/config/jobs/).

## Generating the config

### `make` command

Istio Prow jobs config files can be generated with:

```bash
make generate-config
```

### `go run` command

You can also run the command directly, which provides more options:

```bash
cd prow/config/cmd
go run generate.go \
  --input-dir=/path/to/meta/config --output-dir=/path/to/generated/config \
  [print|write|check|branch]
```

- `print` will print out all generated config to stdout
- `write` will write out generated config to the appropriate job file
- `check` will strictly compare the generated config to the current config, and
  fail if there are any differences. This is useful for a CI gate to ensure
  config is up to date
- `branch` will create new job configurations for a new release branch. Invoke
  with a release name (e.g. "1.4"). Currently only usable for the Istio project.

### `docker run` command

The `prowgen` tool has been automatically published as a Docker image at
gcr.io/istio-testing/prowgen:latest, so you can also run it with `docker run`
command if you don't want to install the binary on your local machine:

```bash
export INPUT="/path/to/meta/config"
export OUTPUT="/path/to/generated/config"
docker run --mount type=bind,source=${INPUT},target=${INPUT} --mount type=bind,source=${OUTPUT},target=${OUTPUT} \
  gcr.io/istio-testing/prowgen:latest \
  prowgen --input-dir=${INPUT} --output-dir=${OUTPUT} write
```

## Pre/Post process command

The --pre-process-command and --post-process-command flag may be used to execute
a command before and after the config files are generated, in case the users
need customized config generation logic that cannot be supported by `prowgen`.
The binary will be run with the following environment variables set:

```None
INPUT        # Path of the meta config files folder
OUTPUT       # Path of the generated config files folder
```

Commit message:

Add knative configgen as an example for using prowgen tool as a library

tools/prowgen/README.md, after:

# Istio Prow Job Config Generator

`prowgen` is a tool that can be used to generate a set of Prow job configuration
files from the templated meta config files. It can help simplify the complex
Prow job configuration files by allowing users to provide opinionated defaults
and shared config fields.

## Config Reference

`prowgen` simplifies the configuration by allowing users to define multiple layers
of configs, with each overlays on the other. Currently it supports defining 3
layers:

- `BaseConfig` contains common fields that are shared by all meta config files
  under the same folder.
- `JobsConfig` contains fields that can be defined in a meta config file, and it
  can contain multiple `Job`s.
- `Job` is the last layer for defining the actual Prow jobs.

All the supported fields for these structs can be checked from
[spec.go](./pkg/spec/spec.go), but below are the concrete examples on how to
configure them in `yaml` format.

### Base config

In the root folder, a `.base.yaml` file can be added to define the config fields
that are shared by all the meta config files.

Below is an example base config file:

```yaml
# The header line that will be added to each generated config file.
autogen_header: "# THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED. See prow/config/README.md\n"

# A map of org:alias.
# Jobs configured with the org in this map will have its `path_alias` field.
path_aliases:
  istio: istio.io

# Cluster and node pool to schedule the Prow job pods.
cluster: istio-build
node_selector:
  testing: test-pool

# The GCS bucket to upload the logs and artifacts.
gcs_log_bucket: istio-testing

# Testgrid config for all the jobs.
# Note num_failures_to_alert will only be set for postsubmit and periodic jobs.
testgrid_config:
  enabled: true
  alert_email: istio-oncall@googlegroups.com
  num_failures_to_alert: "1"

# A map of preset resource allocations that can be referenced in each meta config file.
resources_presets:
  default:
    limits:
      cpu: 3000m
      memory: 24Gi
    requests:
      cpu: 1000m
      memory: 3Gi

# The default dependencies for all the jobs.
requirements: [cache]
# A map of dependency presets that can be referenced in each meta config file.
requirement_presets:
  kind:
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /lib/modules
      name: modules
      readOnly: true
    - mountPath: /sys/fs/cgroup
      name: cgroup
      readOnly: true
    - mountPath: /var/lib/docker
      name: docker-root
    volumes:
    - hostPath:
        path: /lib/modules
        type: Directory
      name: modules
    - hostPath:
        path: /sys/fs/cgroup
        type: Directory
      name: cgroup
    - emptyDir: {}
      name: docker-root
  cache:
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /home/prow/go/pkg
      name: build-cache
      subPath: gomod
    volumes:
    - hostPath:
        path: /var/tmp/prow/cache
        type: DirectoryOrCreate
      name: build-cache
  gcp:
    labels:
      preset-service-account: "true"
  commonargs:
    args:
    - "--up"
    - "--down"
    - "--test"
```

In each sub-folder, a `.base.yaml` file can also be added which'll overlay the
config fields in the root `.base.yaml`. Please note for now the overlay logic is
not recursive, which means only the `.base.yaml` file in the current folder and
the root folder will be overlaid, any other `.base.yaml` files in folders
between them will be ignored.

## Job Syntax

Any number of yaml files can be added to the root and subfolder(s) to configure
the Prow jobs for each org/repo:branches.

Before is an example, annotated job config file:

```yaml
# REQUIRED. Defines what org these jobs should run for
org: istio
# REQUIRED. Defines what repo these jobs should run for
repo: istio

# Defines what branches to run these jobs for. Multiple can be provided
# The branch name will be appended to the job name (e.g tests -> tests-master)
# If this is not supplied, it defaults to master
branches:
  - master

# REQUIRED. Defines the image that will be used to run the jobs
image: gcr.io/istio-testing/build-tools:master

# The policy and secrets for pulling the image.
image_pull_policy: Always
image_pull_secrets: ["gcr-secret"]

# The interval to schedule the periodic Prow jobs.
interval: 5h
# cron can also be used to schedule the periodic Prow jobs.
# interval and cron cannot be specified together.

# Determines whether this configuration can be automatically cloned to create a release branch
# version. Only used for Istio to generate meta config files for the new release branch.
supports_release_branching: false

# A matrix can contain arbitrary number of dimensions, and can be used to easily define a combination of Prow jobs.
# Each dimension will only be respected for computation if they are referenced in the Prow job config, and the syntax
# to use the dimension is $(matrix.dimension_name)
matrix:
  greet: [hey, hello, hi]
  name: [foo, bar]

# Defines the actual jobs
jobs:
  # A basic test requires just a name and a command to run
  - name: unit-tests
    command: [make, test]
  - name: integration-tests
    # types defines when the job will run. Valid options are [presubmit, postsubmit, periodic].
    # by default a presubmit and postsubmit job will be created with the same config
    types: [postsubmit, periodic]
    # resources determines what resource requests and limits to use.
    # It can be one of the preset resource allocations defined in the global config and file config.
    # If omitted, default will be used if it is provided.
    resources: large
    # timeout is how long the prow job will be kept before being aborted.
    timeout: 10h
    command: [prow/istio-lint.sh]
    # requirements specify what dependencies a test has.
    # The options must be the preset requirement names specified in the requirement_presets field in the global config and file config.
    requirements: [gcp, commonargs]
    # excluded_requirements specify what dependencies a test should not have.
    # The options must be the preset requirement names specified in the requirement_presets field in the global config and file config.
    excluded_requirements: [cache]
  - name: hello-world
    command: [echo, "hello world"]
    # modifiers change various parts of the test config. See the values below
    modifiers:
    - presubmit_skipped # if set, the test will only be run in presubmit by explicitly calling /test on it
    - presubmit_optional # if set, the test will not be required in presubmit
    - hidden # if set, the test will run but not be reported to the GitHub UI
  - name: $(matrix.greet)-$(matrix.name)
    # Prow jobs will be generated based on the combinations of each dimension.
    # In this case 3*2=6 Prow jobs will be generated.
    command: [echo, "${matrix.greet} $(matrix.name)"]

# Defines preset resource allocations for tests
# The map here will be intersected with the map in the global config (if there is),
# and overwrite the value if the names are duplicated.
resources_presets:
  default:
    requests:
      memory: "3Gi"
      cpu: "3000m"
    limits:
      memory: "24Gi"
      cpu: "3000m"
  # Define another preset, "large", with higher allocations
  large:
    requests:
      memory: "16Gi"
      cpu: "3000m"
    limits:
      memory: "24Gi"
      cpu: "3000m"
# Defines preset dependencies for tests
# The map here will be intersected with the map in the base config (if there is),
# and overwrite the value if the names are duplicated.
requirement_presets:
  github:
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /etc/github-token
      name: github
      readOnly: true
    volumes:
    - name: github
      secret:
        secretName: oauth-token
```

More of the examples can be checked from [testdata](./pkg/testdata/) and [Istio
Prow jobs](../../prow/config/jobs/).

## How to use the tool

### `make` command

Istio Prow jobs config files can be generated with:

```bash
make generate-config
```

### `go run` command

You can also run the command directly, which provides more options:

```bash
cd prow/config/cmd
go run generate.go \
  --input-dir=/path/to/meta/config --output-dir=/path/to/generated/config \
  [print|write|check|branch]
```

- `print` will print out all generated config to stdout
- `write` will write out generated config to the appropriate job file
- `check` will strictly compare the generated config to the current config, and
  fail if there are any differences. This is useful for a CI gate to ensure
  config is up to date
- `branch` will create new job configurations for a new release branch. Invoke
  with a release name (e.g. "1.4"). Currently only usable for the Istio project.

### `docker run` command

The `prowgen` tool has been automatically published as a Docker image at
gcr.io/istio-testing/prowgen:latest, so you can also run it with `docker run`
command if you don't want to install the binary on your local machine:

```bash
export INPUT="/path/to/meta/config"
export OUTPUT="/path/to/generated/config"
docker run --mount type=bind,source=${INPUT},target=${INPUT} --mount type=bind,source=${OUTPUT},target=${OUTPUT} \
  gcr.io/istio-testing/prowgen:latest \
  prowgen --input-dir=${INPUT} --output-dir=${OUTPUT} write
```

### Use it as a library

Since all the core structs and functions for the `prowgen` tool are public, you
can also import and use it as a library. For an example, check how [Knative
configgen](https://github.com/knative/test-infra/tree/3ade460e1e68d6de4d841b7fb8903b7ce098c081/tools/configgen)
is implemented.

## Pre/Post process command

The --pre-process-command and --post-process-command flag may be used to execute
a command before and after the config files are generated, in case the users
need customized config generation logic that cannot be supported by `prowgen`.
The binary will be run with the following environment variables set:

```None
INPUT        # Path of the meta config files folder
OUTPUT       # Path of the generated config files folder
```
