toolbox/githubctl/README.md, before:

# GitHub Control

## Triggering Release Qualification

This file triggers release qualification in the latest release pipeline (and automates 0.2.* releases, more information can be found [here](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/release/README.md)).
It is a tool of our own that acts as a GitHub client making REST calls through the GitHub API.

You will need a ```<github token file>``` text file containing the github peronal access token setup following the [instruction](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)

```
$ git clone https://github.com/istio/test-infra.git
```

and build it using

```
$ bazel build //toolbox/githubctl
```

The binary output is located in bazel-bin/toolbox/githubctl/linux_amd64_stripped/githubctl.


```
$ alias githubctl="${PWD}/bazel-bin/toolbox/githubctl/linux_amd64_stripped/githubctl"
```

To trigger daily release qualification,
```
githubctl --token_file=<github token file> \
	--op=dailyRelQual \
	--hub=<hub of remote docker image registry> \
	--tag=<tag of the release candidate> \
	--gcsPath=<GCS path where istioctl is stored>
```


## Get Latest Green SHA

A green SHA is a commit sha that has passed all post submit checks. `githubctl` can also be used to get the latest green SHA of branch in a repo.
```
export GREEN_SHA=$(githubctl --token_file=<github token file> \
	--op=getLatestGreenSHA \
	--repo=istio \
	--base_branch=master \
	--logtostderr)
```

Logs are output to stderr and only the latest green sha is directed to stdout.

When using `githubctl` for this purpose, additional configuration such as `--max_commit_depth`, `--max_run_depth`, and `--maxConcurrentRequests` is available for customization.

To see more verbose logging information, use `-v=1` as githubctl uses V-style logging.

Commit message:

Green sha script reads post submit list from prow config (#900)
* Read postsubmit job list from prow config

* fix conflict with hardcoded job list

* Use RunsAgainstBranch

* new --skip flag

* pass postSubmitJobs around instead of global

* postsubmit jobs as map

* avoid dereferencing map

toolbox/githubctl/README.md, after:

# GitHub Control

## Triggering Release Qualification

This file triggers release qualification in the latest release pipeline (and automates 0.2.* releases, more information can be found [here](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/release/README.md)).
It is a tool of our own that acts as a GitHub client making REST calls through the GitHub API.

You will need a ```<github token file>``` text file containing the github peronal access token setup following the [instruction](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)

```
$ git clone https://github.com/istio/test-infra.git
```

and build it using

```
$ bazel build //toolbox/githubctl
```

The binary output is located in bazel-bin/toolbox/githubctl/linux_amd64_stripped/githubctl.


```
$ alias githubctl="${PWD}/bazel-bin/toolbox/githubctl/linux_amd64_stripped/githubctl"
```

To trigger daily release qualification,
```
githubctl --token_file=<github token file> \
	--op=dailyRelQual \
	--hub=<hub of remote docker image registry> \
	--tag=<tag of the release candidate> \
	--gcsPath=<GCS path where istioctl is stored>
```


## Get Latest Green SHA

A green SHA is a commit sha that has passed all post submit checks. `githubctl` can also be used to get the latest green SHA of branch in a repo.
```
export GREEN_SHA=$(githubctl --token_file=<github token file> \
	--op=getLatestGreenSHA \
	--repo=istio \
	--base_branch=master \
	--logtostderr)
```

Logs are output to stderr and only the latest green sha is directed to stdout.

When using `githubctl` for this purpose, additional configuration such as `--max_commit_depth`, `--max_run_depth`, and `--maxConcurrentRequests` is available for customization.

If some postsubmit jobs have been failing consistently and one wishes to ignore these jobs when searching for the latest green sha, use `--skip` which takes a comma separated list of job names. For example, `--skip=istio-pilot-e2e-envoyv2-v1alpha3-k8s-1.10,e2e-simpleTests`.

To see more verbose logging information, use `-v=1` as githubctl uses V-style logging.
